Added part `Docker` to docs (#12403)
ydb-platform/ydb: ydb/docs/en/core/reference/docker/environment.md

> # Environment variables for running {{ ydb-short-name }} in Docker

Reviewer: Let's rename the file to something along the lines of configuration.md, as the usage of environment variables is more like an implementation detail. Also, sooner or later someone would want to use an arbitrary config file, and the environment variables won't be the only option.

> # Environment variables for running {{ ydb-short-name }} in Docker
> 
> During [startup](start.md) {{ ydb-short-name }} in Docker, you can specify additional environment variables using the `-e` with the `docker run` command.
> 
> ## Environment variables
> 
> | Name                                                                                                                                                                        | Type       | Default                | YDB version                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Configuring the {{ ydb-short-name }} Docker container

{{ ydb-short-name }} is configured via environment variables when running in Docker. When [starting](start.md) the {{ ydb-short-name }} Docker container with the `docker run` command, you can specify additional environment variables using the `-e` option to change the container's behavior. For more than one environment variable, specify this option multiple times. Below is the full list of supported environment variables.

## Environment variables

| Name                                                                                                                                                                        | Type       | Default                | Description                                                                                                                                                                            |
```

|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------|------------------------|------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | [`POSTGRES_USER`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/c113fcffa7b1a20ad8dcb1b1760ae5bfa25370ca/ydb/public/tools/lib/cmds/__init__.py#L240)                             | `string`   | `postgres`             | `≥24.1`                      | User name to access via [compatibility with PostgreSQL](../../postgresql/intro.md)                                                                                                     |
> | [`POSTGRES_PASSWORD`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/c113fcffa7b1a20ad8dcb1b1760ae5bfa25370ca/ydb/public/tools/lib/cmds/__init__.py#L240)                         | `string`   |                        | `≥24.1`                      | User password to access via [compatibility with PostgreSQL](../../postgresql/intro.md)                                                                                                 |
> | [`YDB_GRPC_ENABLE_TLS`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/c113fcffa7b1a20ad8dcb1b1760ae5bfa25370ca/ydb/public/tools/lib/cmds/__init__.py#L258)                       | `0` or `1` | `1`                    |                              | Enable the use `TLS` for `GRPC`                                                                                                                                                        |
> | [`YDB_GRPC_TLS_DATA_PATH`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/8fefc809c83829d8d8b886e82534d009de4c8826/ydb/public/tools/lib/cmds/__init__.py#L291)                    | `string`   | `/ydb_data`            |                              | data path to `TLS` certificate for `gRPC` coonection                                                                                                                                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`POSTGRES_USER`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/c113fcffa7b1a20ad8dcb1b1760ae5bfa25370ca/ydb/public/tools/lib/cmds/__init__.py#L240)                             | `string`   | `postgres`             | User name for access via [compatibility with PostgreSQL](../../postgresql/intro.md)                                                                                                     |
| [`POSTGRES_PASSWORD`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/c113fcffa7b1a20ad8dcb1b1760ae5bfa25370ca/ydb/public/tools/lib/cmds/__init__.py#L240)                         | `string`   |                        | User password for access via [compatibility with PostgreSQL](../../postgresql/intro.md)                                                                                                 |
| [`YDB_GRPC_ENABLE_TLS`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/c113fcffa7b1a20ad8dcb1b1760ae5bfa25370ca/ydb/public/tools/lib/cmds/__init__.py#L258)                       | `0` or `1` | `1`                    |   Enable the `grpcs://` protocol (gRPC over TLS)                                                                                                                                                        |
| [`YDB_GRPC_TLS_DATA_PATH`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/8fefc809c83829d8d8b886e82534d009de4c8826/ydb/public/tools/lib/cmds/__init__.py#L291)                    | `string`   | `/ydb_data`            |  Data path with TLS certificates for the `grpcs://` connection                                                                                                                                   |
```

> | [`MON_PORT`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/8dde59cd0af86737d07a1cd8ff19811a2bd2b663/ydb/tests/library/harness/kikimr_port_allocator.py#L170)                     | `int`      | `8765`                 |                              | `HTTP` port of YDB web-UI                                                                                                                                                              |
> | [`GRPC_PORT`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/8dde59cd0af86737d07a1cd8ff19811a2bd2b663/ydb/tests/library/harness/kikimr_port_allocator.py#L174)                    | `int`      | `2135`                 |                              | `GRPC` port                                                                                                                                                                            |
> | [`IC_PORT`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/8dde59cd0af86737d07a1cd8ff19811a2bd2b663/ydb/tests/library/harness/kikimr_port_allocator.py#L179)                      | `int`      | `19001`                |                              | `interconnect` port                                                                                                                                                                    |
> | [`GRPC_TLS_PORT`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/8dde59cd0af86737d07a1cd8ff19811a2bd2b663/ydb/tests/library/harness/kikimr_port_allocator.py#L183)                | `int`      | `2137`                 |                              | `GPRC` port for secure connection                                                                                                                                                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`MON_PORT`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/8dde59cd0af86737d07a1cd8ff19811a2bd2b663/ydb/tests/library/harness/kikimr_port_allocator.py#L170)                     | `int`      | `8765`                 |  HTTP port of [Embedded UI](../../reference/embedded-ui/index.md)                                                                                                                                                              |
| [`GRPC_PORT`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/8dde59cd0af86737d07a1cd8ff19811a2bd2b663/ydb/tests/library/harness/kikimr_port_allocator.py#L174)                    | `int`      | `2135`                 |    gRPC port                                                                                                                                                                            |
| [`IC_PORT`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/8dde59cd0af86737d07a1cd8ff19811a2bd2b663/ydb/tests/library/harness/kikimr_port_allocator.py#L179)                      | `int`      | `19001`                |   [Interconnect](../../concepts/glossary.md#interconnect) port                                                                                                                                                                    |
| [`GRPC_TLS_PORT`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/8dde59cd0af86737d07a1cd8ff19811a2bd2b663/ydb/tests/library/harness/kikimr_port_allocator.py#L183)                | `int`      | `2137`                 |  gRPC over TLS port                                                                                                                                                      |
```

| [`YDB_USE_IN_MEMORY_PDISKS`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/c113fcffa7b1a20ad8dcb1b1760ae5bfa25370ca/ydb/public/tools/lib/cmds/__init__.py#L230)                  | `0` or `1` | `0`                    |                              | Makes all data volatile and stored only in RAM. Currently, saving data by disabling it is supported only on x86_64 processors                                                          |
| [`YDB_DEFAULT_LOG_LEVEL`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/b1c590828b222c839dedecd8e6e79413ef5b7eec/ydb/tests/library/harness/kikimr_config.py#L73)                 | `string`   | `NOTICE`               |                              | Sets the logging level by default. Available level values: `CRIT`, `ERROR`, `WARN`, `NOTICE`, `INFO`.                                                                                  |

> | [`YDB_ADDITIONAL_LOG_CONFIGS`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/b1c590828b222c839dedecd8e6e79413ef5b7eec/ydb/tests/library/harness/kikimr_config.py#L48)            | `string`   | `None`                 |                              | Sets additional logging levels in format: `level`:`level value`. If you need to enter multiple levels, then enter them separated by commas.                                            |

Reviewer: It's unclear what the difference is between "level" and "level value". Is this about per-component logging level changes? If so, it needs a link to the list of available components too.

An example won't hurt either, as this is a less trivial option compared to neighboring ones.

> | [`YDB_ERASURE`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/8fefc809c83829d8d8b886e82534d009de4c8826/ydb/public/tools/lib/cmds/__init__.py#L50)                                | `string`   | `None`                 |                              | Erasure Coding method, see. [{#T}](../../concepts/topology.md)                                                                                                                         |
> | [`FQ_CONNECTOR_ENDPOINT`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/c113fcffa7b1a20ad8dcb1b1760ae5bfa25370ca/ydb/public/tools/lib/cmds/__init__.py#L261)                     | `string`   | `None`                 | `≥24.1`                      | Connection string for the connector to external sources `fq-connector-go`                                                                                                              |
> | [`YDB_USE_IN_MEMORY_PDISKS`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/c113fcffa7b1a20ad8dcb1b1760ae5bfa25370ca/ydb/public/tools/lib/cmds/__init__.py#L230)                  | `0` or `1` | `0`                    |                              | Makes all data volatile and stored only in RAM. Currently, saving data by disabling it is supported only on x86_64 processors                                                          |
> | [`YDB_DEFAULT_LOG_LEVEL`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/b1c590828b222c839dedecd8e6e79413ef5b7eec/ydb/tests/library/harness/kikimr_config.py#L73)                 | `string`   | `NOTICE`               |                              | Sets the logging level by default. Available level values: `CRIT`, `ERROR`, `WARN`, `NOTICE`, `INFO`.                                                                                  |
> | [`YDB_ADDITIONAL_LOG_CONFIGS`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/b1c590828b222c839dedecd8e6e79413ef5b7eec/ydb/tests/library/harness/kikimr_config.py#L48)            | `string`   | `None`                 |                              | Sets additional logging levels in format: `level`:`level value`. If you need to enter multiple levels, then enter them separated by commas.                                            |
> | [`YDB_FEATURE_FLAGS`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/69a57074e4c259aea0bbb9a735c5ed821743629c/ydb/public/tools/lib/cmds/__init__.py#L395) | `string` | `None` | | Comma-separated list of [experimental features](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/69a57074e4c259aea0bbb9a735c5ed821743629c/ydb/core/protos/feature_flags.proto) YDB |
> | [`YDB_ENABLE_COLUMN_TABLES`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/69a57074e4c259aea0bbb9a735c5ed821743629c/ydb/tests/library/harness/kikimr_config.py#L86) | `0` or `1` | `0` | | Enables column tables in YDB|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`YDB_ERASURE`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/8fefc809c83829d8d8b886e82534d009de4c8826/ydb/public/tools/lib/cmds/__init__.py#L50)                                | `string`   | `none`                  | Erasure to use, see [{#T}](../../concepts/topology.md)                                                                                                                         |
| [`FQ_CONNECTOR_ENDPOINT`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/c113fcffa7b1a20ad8dcb1b1760ae5bfa25370ca/ydb/public/tools/lib/cmds/__init__.py#L261)                     | `string`   | `None`                | Connection string for the connector to external sources `fq-connector-go`, see [{#T}](../../concepts/federated_query/index.md)                                                                                                              |
| [`YDB_USE_IN_MEMORY_PDISKS`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/c113fcffa7b1a20ad8dcb1b1760ae5bfa25370ca/ydb/public/tools/lib/cmds/__init__.py#L230)                  | `0` or `1` | `0`                   | Makes all data volatile and stored only in RAM. Currently, saving data by disabling this option is supported only on x86_64 processors or virtual machines emulating them.                                                          |
| [`YDB_DEFAULT_LOG_LEVEL`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/b1c590828b222c839dedecd8e6e79413ef5b7eec/ydb/tests/library/harness/kikimr_config.py#L73)                 | `string`   | `NOTICE`               | Sets the logging level by default. Available values: `CRIT`, `ERROR`, `WARN`, `NOTICE`, `INFO`.                                                                                  |
| [`YDB_ADDITIONAL_LOG_CONFIGS`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/b1c590828b222c839dedecd8e6e79413ef5b7eec/ydb/tests/library/harness/kikimr_config.py#L48)            | `string`   | `None`                 | Sets additional logging levels in format: `level`:`level value`. If you need to enter multiple levels, then enter them separated by commas.                                            |
| [`YDB_FEATURE_FLAGS`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/69a57074e4c259aea0bbb9a735c5ed821743629c/ydb/public/tools/lib/cmds/__init__.py#L395) | `string` | `None` | | Comma-separated list of [experimental features](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/69a57074e4c259aea0bbb9a735c5ed821743629c/ydb/core/protos/feature_flags.proto) YDB |
| [`YDB_ENABLE_COLUMN_TABLES`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/69a57074e4c259aea0bbb9a735c5ed821743629c/ydb/tests/library/harness/kikimr_config.py#L86) | `0` or `1` | `0` | Enables [column-oriented tables](../../concepts/datamodel/table.md#column-oriented-tables)|
```

| [`YDB_PQ_VERSION_TABLE_PATH`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/b1c590828b222c839dedecd8e6e79413ef5b7eec/ydb/tests/library/harness/kikimr_config.py#L79)             | `string` | `None`  | |  required for logbroker federation, not used in normal ydb . |
| [`YDB_PQ_ROOT`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/b1c590828b222c839dedecd8e6e79413ef5b7eec/ydb/tests/library/harness/kikimr_config.py#L80)                           | `string` |  `None` |  | required for logbroker federation, not used in normal ydb.         |
| [`YDB_ENABLE_PQCD`](https://GitHub.com/ydb-platform/ydb/blob/8fefc809c83829d8d8b886e82534d009de4c8826/ydb/public/tools/lib/cmds/__init__.py#L310)                           | `0` or `1` | `0`                    |                              | Enable usage `persistent queue cluster discovery`                                                                                                                                      |

> -->

Reviewer: Why is this commented out?

Author: This envs also used in docker image local-ydb, but we dont want to show it - bc it is internal

Author: removed all of them
